README.md, before:

# **Moving Cat Pilates Studio**
## **Introduction**
The Moving Cat Pilates Studio, is a fictional Pilates Studio that I have created a website for to help inform people about the history of Pilates and how it first came about and how, at the Moving Cat Pilates Studio’s around the UK, all the MC Pilates instructors, or the Elders, have been taught to the standards of Joseph Pilates who invented the Pilates moves back in the first world war helping injured soldiers. Aswell as being a club to join, via the join us page, and offering fixed classes and one-two-one sessions, the website includes a history page with a link to an informative animated video which tells the story of Pilates. It is targeted at a wide audience as Pilates is available for anyone at any level, from beginner to advanced. We offer a free taster session prior to joining so that the user can be sure it is something they would like to join and is important to introduce people who may not have done Pilates before and it can be quite a commitment to join a club without trying it first. 

## **My starting website features**
### **Header**
The Moving Cat Pilates Studio, is a fictional Pilates Studio that I have created a website for to help inform people about the history of Pilates and how it first came about and how, at the Moving Cat Pilates Studio’s around the UK, all the MC Pilates instructors, or the Elders, have been taught to the standards of Joseph Pilates who invented the Pilates moves back in the first world war helping injured soldiers. Aswell as being a club to join, via the join us page, and offering fixed classes and one-two-one sessions, the website includes a history page with a link to an informative animated video which tells the story of Pilates. It is targeted at a wide audience as Pilates is available for anyone at any level, from beginner to advanced. We offer a free taster session prior to joining so that the user can be sure it is something they would like to join and is important to introduce people who may not have done Pilates before and it can be quite a commitment to join a club without trying it first.

I have update my website for a second submission, November 2024.

I have used the I am responsive webite to show my website on different sized screens.

![Am I Responsive](assets/images/amIresponsive.png)

I have updated the header so that now on the smaller screens the nav bar is displayed vertically which looks much better rather than teh nav bar being spreadover two lines when it was horizontal on the smaller screens. See additional screen shots below of the new header layout. I also added the clamp funtion to the font size of the nav bar text, similar the the H!, so that the text size alters in response to the screen size. I also added the bold feature so that the active page is now written in bold.

Header at 320px width

![Header at 320px width](assets/images/header_320px_2.png)

Header at 768px width

![Header at 768px width](assets/images/header_768px_2.png)

Header at 1024px width

![Header at 1024px width](assets/images/header_1024px_2.png)

Header at 1440px width

![Header at 1024px width](assets/images/header_1440px_2.png)

Header at 1560px width

![Header at 1024px width](assets/images/header_1560px_2.png)


Background colour used rbg (161, 104, 104). I choose this as a nice earthy colour that fits the kind of colour scheme you would expect for a Pilates type of website. A calming colour that fits in with the other images throughout the website.
I have used the same colour in the footer as the background to match the header.

The Nav bar links to my other pages. The History page and the Join Us page.
This is in the same place on each page for consistency and makes it easy for the user to navigate from each page in the same way.

**Index/Home page image**

I have included a background image of a silhouette of someone performing a well-known Salutation pose which will let people know straight away that the site is related to the Pilates/Yoga type industry. The colours and image give this calming effect also.

There is cover text overlaid on top of the image with a background effect to help the words stand out. Although the words on the home page would stand out ok against the background where it is positioned, I have included the background colour to match the History and Join Us pages which also have cover text and need the background colour to make the text stand out enough.
The cover text is a quote from Joseh Pilates, the founder of Pilates. I have put a quote from Joseh Pilates on each of the pages for consistency and to give the end user an interesting quote to read on each page to keep them interested.

Home page background image with cover text on smaller screens


![salutation pose](assets/images/homepage-img.png)


Home page background image with cover text on larger screens

![salutation pose](<assets/images/homepage-img large.png>)


**Who are we section**


Underneath the salutation image is a section with information about the club. The user will learn the locations of the studios and be interested to know that they can learn some of the history of Pilates by navigating to the History page. 
The background colour used here is rgba (161, 104, 104, 0.6) to give the same tone as the header and footer but lighter so that the black text stands out better and matches the tone of the header and footer colour.

Who Section on smaller screens

![who-section-small](assets/images/who-section-small.png)

Who section on larger screens

![who-section-large](assets/images/who-section-large.png)

**Times table section**


In this section users are given the times that are held in the studios around the UK.
I have used a calming background image with colours that go well with the background colour that is used in the header and footer and the who section above.

Timestable on smaller screens

![class times](assets/images/timestable-small.png)

Timestable on large screens
![class times](assets/images/timestable-large.png)

**The Footer**


The footer includes links to the common social media pages that are important to the users. These links all open new pages so as not to take the user away from the Moving Cat website page. As mentioned, the background colour here matches the header and the social media icons are in white to stand out and match the text colour in the header for consistency and appealing aesthetics.

Footer on smaller screens
![footer small](assets/images/footer-small.png)

Footer on larger screens
![footer large](assets/images/footer-large.png)

**History Page**


Users are reminded on the home page to navigate to the History page to find out more about Joseph Pilates, the founder of Pilates moves.

 This page contains a background image with some cover text which is again a quote from Joseph Plates. This shows consistency throughout the website as the user navigates from page to page, they see the same layout which keeps things easier to take notice of. The image is a swirling pattern, giving the end user a relaxing feeling and again the colours of this image work well with the colours in the heading and of the background section below in the ‘what’ section.

History page background image smaller screens

![swirl](assets/images/history-background-image.png)

History page background image larger screens

![swirl](assets/images/history-background-image-large.png)

**The What section**


Here is a blurb about how Pilates was first developed and contains a link to a short, animated film about the history of Joseph Pilates. The user neds to click on the name Joseph Pilates which I have turned into a link to take you to a new page where the YouTube video is played.


![what section](assets/images/what-section.png)

Also an image of Joseph Pilates using one of his pieces of equipment back in the 1920's.

![joseph pilates](assets/images/jphistory.png)

This is an informative page for the users, to let them know the history of the classes they will be signing up for and how Pilates is also very beneficial towards health and flexibility.

**The Join us page**


The final page to navigate to, is the join us page where users can sign up for a free taster session. There is an image of a beautiful sunset, where the user can imagine they are doing Pilates, and again another quote from Joseph Pilates is written as cover text over the image.

Join us page image on smaller screens

![sunset](assets/images/joinus-backround-image.png)

Join Us page image on larger screens

![sunset](<assets/images/joinus-backround-image large.png>)

Underneath this image on smaller screens, is the form to fill out with full name and email address, choose which location the user is in and which class time the user would like for their free taster session.
On larger screens this is to the side of the image.


Form section on smaller screens

![form](assets/images/form-small.png)

Form section on larger screens

![form](assets/images/form-large.png)

**Future Features**

I would like to improve on my website in the future by making sure all the image files are compressed to help with the page loading times.
The plan is to add more classes and some testimonials from customers goinf forward.
Currently the social media icons lead to the sign up pages for those companies however the aim would be to have dedicated Moving Cat pages to navigate to in the future.

**Testing**


I have tested that the navigation bar works on all screens and that clicking on the Moving Cat Pilates Studio header on any screen takes you back to the home page as it should. All the links in the footer work on every page and take you to the sign-up page for each of the social media sites. I have checked the links on each page.
On the History page there is a link to an informative video on YouTube.
I have tested the form page. As this is my first project, this is not set up to actual collect the data however the fields can be filled in and submitted, then when the page is refreshed the information is cleared.
If you try to submit the form without entering all the required information, a warning message is seen.

Message if you don't select a location

![error message](assets/images/select-one-option.png)

Message if you don't select a class time

![error message](assets/images/select-one-option-2.png)

Message if you don't fill out the name fields

![error message](assets/images/fill-out-form.png)

Message if you don't write an email address in the email input box

![error message](assets/images/email-include.png)

The Let's Join button at the bottom of the form changes color when the user hovers over it.


Before mouse hover over button


![join us button](assets/images/lets-join.png)

With mouse hover over button

![join us button hover](assets/images/lets-join-hover.png)


I have checked that all my pages are responsive on-screen sizes:
320px, 425px, 768px, 1024px, 1440px and 2560px

I have checked them in Enterprise and Firefox browsers as well as the Google browser I use myself. 
The pages look best on Google and Enterprise.

**HTML Validator testing**

I ran my 3 html pages throught the official W3C HTML validator.

With the joinus.html file, an error is shown saying that there is a stray <footer> tag on line 138, however, I cannot see that this is a stray tag as when I remove it then this creates other stray tags. 
I have fixed this bug. It was the end body tag that was in the in correct place. This has now been moved and the HTML validator shows no errors for all 3 html files now.
Both the index.html and history.html passed with no errors, however they both showed warnings as both contain sections with no headers. I tried to fix this by changing the sections to divs however this messed up my formatting. I then changed the divs back to sections and turned the first sentence of text into h4* so this is bold and stands out as the first sentence. There is still one section in each of these files where I don't want to use a heading so there is still a warning message with each of this files in the html validator.
*update I have changed this to h3 so I now get 100% score in lighthouse accesibility.

![html-error-message](assets/images/error-joinus-html.png)

![stray-footer-tag](assets/images/footer-error.png)


**CSS Validator testing**

My CSS style sheet passed the official W3C vlaidator.

![CSS validator results](assets/images/CSS-validator.png)

**Lighthouse report**

![lighthouse report](assets/images/lighthouse-validator.png)

**Unfixed Bugs**

From my Lighthouse Performance score I can see there is an issue with my images and he speed of how they load. I have tried to rectify this by changing the jpg files to webo files. This did not help. I then added the tag loading="eager", but this didn't work either.
I have also tried compressing files.

**Deployment**

To deploy my project, I went to my Github repository and in the settings tab, I selected the Master Branch and waited for my project to be deployed.
Here is the link:


**Credits**

I used tinypng.com for compressing images

I used freeconvert.com/jpg-to-webp to cconvert my jpg images to webp images

I used Pexel.com for all of my images

I uses font awesome for my social media icons

I used google font for fonts

I used wikipedia for text about the history of Pliates

I used youTube for a video about Joseph Pilates

I would also like to thank my friends and the support team at the Code Institute for looking at my website and giving feedback on how to improve things as I've been moving along and also pointing out bugs that were seen on other peoples screens that I could not see.

**Bugs fixed for my second submission**

I have added method and action to my form so that the details are sent to https://formdump.codeinstitute.net/

I have altered the nav bar styling so that on smaller screens this is now verticle and on the larger screens this is still horizontal, however I have added the clamp function so that the text alters witht hte size of the screen. Also added the bold to the active page on the nav bar.

My main challenge was the responsiveness when moving to screens 1440 and above. Here I was seeing whte spaces where they shouldn't be.
After lots of playing around with padding and margins and section heights, I realised that I needed to chagne the flex poperty to flex end on the main to push the above sections down to the footer and then adjust the margins. Now the webpags look good on all screen sizes with no white spaces.

I have now added the 'am I responsive' image to the start of this readme file.

I also changed the cover text after feedback that it didnt look good the way it was.
I took out the background colour and gave a width of 100%, then centered the text. This doesn't quite look right onhte history page mobile size, however I can't see how to change this as when I change from align-text centre to align-text left, It doesnt do anything.
See below for updated images of each page with the new cover text.

![Cover Text Main Page Mobile Screen](assets/images/salutation2.png)

![Cover Text History Page Mobile Screen](assets/images/history2.png)

![Cover Text Join Us Page Mobile Screen](assets/images/joinus2.png)

![Cover Text Main Page Laptop Screen](assets/images/salutation2-laptop.png)

![Cover Text History Page Laptop Screen](assets/images/history2-laptop.png)

![Cover Text Join Us Page Laptop Screen](assets/images/joinus2-laptop.png)

![Cover Text Main Page PC Screen](assets/images/salutation2-pc.png)

![Cover Text History Page PC Screen](assets/images/history2-pc.png)

![Cover Text Join Us Page PC Screen](assets/images/joinus2-pc.png)

Commit message:

FIX: Update deployment section on readme to add more detail.

README.md, after:

# **Moving Cat Pilates Studio**
## **Introduction**
The Moving Cat Pilates Studio, is a fictional Pilates Studio that I have created a website for to help inform people about the history of Pilates and how it first came about and how, at the Moving Cat Pilates Studio’s around the UK, all the MC Pilates instructors, or the Elders, have been taught to the standards of Joseph Pilates who invented the Pilates moves back in the first world war helping injured soldiers. Aswell as being a club to join, via the join us page, and offering fixed classes and one-two-one sessions, the website includes a history page with a link to an informative animated video which tells the story of Pilates. It is targeted at a wide audience as Pilates is available for anyone at any level, from beginner to advanced. We offer a free taster session prior to joining so that the user can be sure it is something they would like to join and is important to introduce people who may not have done Pilates before and it can be quite a commitment to join a club without trying it first. 

## **My starting website features**
### **Header**
The Moving Cat Pilates Studio, is a fictional Pilates Studio that I have created a website for to help inform people about the history of Pilates and how it first came about and how, at the Moving Cat Pilates Studio’s around the UK, all the MC Pilates instructors, or the Elders, have been taught to the standards of Joseph Pilates who invented the Pilates moves back in the first world war helping injured soldiers. Aswell as being a club to join, via the join us page, and offering fixed classes and one-two-one sessions, the website includes a history page with a link to an informative animated video which tells the story of Pilates. It is targeted at a wide audience as Pilates is available for anyone at any level, from beginner to advanced. We offer a free taster session prior to joining so that the user can be sure it is something they would like to join and is important to introduce people who may not have done Pilates before and it can be quite a commitment to join a club without trying it first.

I have update my website for a second submission, November 2024.

I have used the I am responsive website to show my website on different sized screens.

![Am I Responsive](assets/images/amIresponsive.png)

I have updated the header so that now on the smaller screens the nav bar is displayed vertically which looks much better rather than the nav bar being spreadover two lines when it was horizontal on the smaller screens. See additional screen shots below of the new header layout. I also added the clamp funtion to the font size of the nav bar text, similar the the H!, so that the text size alters in response to the screen size. I also added the bold feature so that the active page is now written in bold.

Header at 320px width

![Header at 320px width](assets/images/header_320px_2.png)

Header at 768px width

![Header at 768px width](assets/images/header_768px_2.png)

Header at 1024px width

![Header at 1024px width](assets/images/header_1024px_2.png)

Header at 1440px width

![Header at 1024px width](assets/images/header_1440px_2.png)

Header at 1560px width

![Header at 1024px width](assets/images/header_1560px_2.png)


Background colour used rbg (161, 104, 104). I choose this as a nice earthy colour that fits the kind of colour scheme you would expect for a Pilates type of website. A calming colour that fits in with the other images throughout the website.
I have used the same colour in the footer as the background to match the header.

The Nav bar links to my other pages. The History page and the Join Us page.
This is in the same place on each page for consistency and makes it easy for the user to navigate from each page in the same way.

**Index/Home page image**

I have included a background image of a silhouette of someone performing a well-known Salutation pose which will let people know straight away that the site is related to the Pilates/Yoga type industry. The colours and image give this calming effect also.

There is cover text overlaid on top of the image with a background effect to help the words stand out. Although the words on the home page would stand out ok against the background where it is positioned, I have included the background colour to match the History and Join Us pages which also have cover text and need the background colour to make the text stand out enough.
The cover text is a quote from Joseh Pilates, the founder of Pilates. I have put a quote from Joseh Pilates on each of the pages for consistency and to give the end user an interesting quote to read on each page to keep them interested.

Home page background image with cover text on smaller screens


![salutation pose](assets/images/homepage-img.png)


Home page background image with cover text on larger screens

![salutation pose](<assets/images/homepage-img large.png>)


**Who are we section**


Underneath the salutation image is a section with information about the club. The user will learn the locations of the studios and be interested to know that they can learn some of the history of Pilates by navigating to the History page. 
The background colour used here is rgba (161, 104, 104, 0.6) to give the same tone as the header and footer but lighter so that the black text stands out better and matches the tone of the header and footer colour.

Who Section on smaller screens

![who-section-small](assets/images/who-section-small.png)

Who section on larger screens

![who-section-large](assets/images/who-section-large.png)

**Times table section**


In this section users are given the times that are held in the studios around the UK.
I have used a calming background image with colours that go well with the background colour that is used in the header and footer and the who section above.

Timestable on smaller screens

![class times](assets/images/timestable-small.png)

Timestable on large screens
![class times](assets/images/timestable-large.png)

**The Footer**


The footer includes links to the common social media pages that are important to the users. These links all open new pages so as not to take the user away from the Moving Cat website page. As mentioned, the background colour here matches the header and the social media icons are in white to stand out and match the text colour in the header for consistency and appealing aesthetics.

Footer on smaller screens
![footer small](assets/images/footer-small.png)

Footer on larger screens
![footer large](assets/images/footer-large.png)

**History Page**


Users are reminded on the home page to navigate to the History page to find out more about Joseph Pilates, the founder of Pilates moves.

 This page contains a background image with some cover text which is again a quote from Joseph Plates. This shows consistency throughout the website as the user navigates from page to page, they see the same layout which keeps things easier to take notice of. The image is a swirling pattern, giving the end user a relaxing feeling and again the colours of this image work well with the colours in the heading and of the background section below in the ‘what’ section.

History page background image smaller screens

![swirl](assets/images/history-background-image.png)

History page background image larger screens

![swirl](assets/images/history-background-image-large.png)

**The What section**


Here is a blurb about how Pilates was first developed and contains a link to a short, animated film about the history of Joseph Pilates. The user neds to click on the name Joseph Pilates which I have turned into a link to take you to a new page where the YouTube video is played.


![what section](assets/images/what-section.png)

Also an image of Joseph Pilates using one of his pieces of equipment back in the 1920's.

![joseph pilates](assets/images/jphistory.png)

This is an informative page for the users, to let them know the history of the classes they will be signing up for and how Pilates is also very beneficial towards health and flexibility.

**The Join us page**


The final page to navigate to, is the join us page where users can sign up for a free taster session. There is an image of a beautiful sunset, where the user can imagine they are doing Pilates, and again another quote from Joseph Pilates is written as cover text over the image.

Join us page image on smaller screens

![sunset](assets/images/joinus-backround-image.png)

Join Us page image on larger screens

![sunset](<assets/images/joinus-backround-image large.png>)

Underneath this image on smaller screens, is the form to fill out with full name and email address, choose which location the user is in and which class time the user would like for their free taster session.
On larger screens this is to the side of the image.


Form section on smaller screens

![form](assets/images/form-small.png)

Form section on larger screens

![form](assets/images/form-large.png)

**Future Features**

I would like to improve on my website in the future by making sure all the image files are compressed to help with the page loading times.
The plan is to add more classes and some testimonials from customers goinf forward.
Currently the social media icons lead to the sign up pages for those companies however the aim would be to have dedicated Moving Cat pages to navigate to in the future.

**Testing**


I have tested that the navigation bar works on all screens and that clicking on the Moving Cat Pilates Studio header on any screen takes you back to the home page as it should. All the links in the footer work on every page and take you to the sign-up page for each of the social media sites. I have checked the links on each page.
On the History page there is a link to an informative video on YouTube.
I have tested the form page. As this is my first project, this is not set up to actual collect the data however the fields can be filled in and submitted, then when the page is refreshed the information is cleared.
If you try to submit the form without entering all the required information, a warning message is seen.

Message if you don't select a location

![error message](assets/images/select-one-option.png)

Message if you don't select a class time

![error message](assets/images/select-one-option-2.png)

Message if you don't fill out the name fields

![error message](assets/images/fill-out-form.png)

Message if you don't write an email address in the email input box

![error message](assets/images/email-include.png)

The Let's Join button at the bottom of the form changes color when the user hovers over it.


Before mouse hover over button


![join us button](assets/images/lets-join.png)

With mouse hover over button

![join us button hover](assets/images/lets-join-hover.png)


I have checked that all my pages are responsive on-screen sizes:
320px, 425px, 768px, 1024px, 1440px and 2560px

I have checked them in Enterprise and Firefox browsers as well as the Google browser I use myself. 
The pages look best on Google and Enterprise.

**HTML Validator testing**

I ran my 3 html pages throught the official W3C HTML validator.

With the joinus.html file, an error is shown saying that there is a stray <footer> tag on line 138, however, I cannot see that this is a stray tag as when I remove it then this creates other stray tags. 
I have fixed this bug. It was the end body tag that was in the in correct place. This has now been moved and the HTML validator shows no errors for all 3 html files now.
Both the index.html and history.html passed with no errors, however they both showed warnings as both contain sections with no headers. I tried to fix this by changing the sections to divs however this messed up my formatting. I then changed the divs back to sections and turned the first sentence of text into h4* so this is bold and stands out as the first sentence. There is still one section in each of these files where I don't want to use a heading so there is still a warning message with each of this files in the html validator.
*update I have changed this to h3 so I now get 100% score in lighthouse accesibility.

![html-error-message](assets/images/error-joinus-html.png)

![stray-footer-tag](assets/images/footer-error.png)


**CSS Validator testing**

My CSS style sheet passed the official W3C vlaidator.

![CSS validator results](assets/images/CSS-validator.png)

**Lighthouse report**

![lighthouse report](assets/images/lighthouse-validator.png)

**Unfixed Bugs**

From my Lighthouse Performance score I can see there is an issue with my images and he speed of how they load. I have tried to rectify this by changing the jpg files to webo files. This did not help. I then added the tag loading="eager", but this didn't work either.
I have also tried compressing files.

**Deployment**


I deployed my website on GitHub pages via the following procedure:
 - From the project repository, I went to the settings tab.
 - From the left hand pages, I selected the pages tab.
 - From the sourc section, I selected the main branch from the drop-down menu and then saved.
 - A message was displayed indicating the successful deployment.
Here is the link to my website: https://helsbels-del.github.io/Project-1/


**Credits**

I used tinypng.com for compressing images

I used freeconvert.com/jpg-to-webp to cconvert my jpg images to webp images

I used Pexel.com for all of my images

I uses font awesome for my social media icons

I used google font for fonts

I used wikipedia for text about the history of Pliates

I used youTube for a video about Joseph Pilates

I would also like to thank my friends and the support team at the Code Institute for looking at my website and giving feedback on how to improve things as I've been moving along and also pointing out bugs that were seen on other peoples screens that I could not see.

**Bugs fixed for my second submission**

I have added method and action to my form so that the details are sent to https://formdump.codeinstitute.net/

I have altered the nav bar styling so that on smaller screens this is now verticle and on the larger screens this is still horizontal, however I have added the clamp function so that the text alters witht hte size of the screen. Also added the bold to the active page on the nav bar.

My main challenge was the responsiveness when moving to screens 1440 and above. Here I was seeing whte spaces where they shouldn't be.
After lots of playing around with padding and margins and section heights, I realised that I needed to chagne the flex poperty to flex end on the main to push the above sections down to the footer and then adjust the margins. Now the webpags look good on all screen sizes with no white spaces.

I have now added the 'am I responsive' image to the start of this readme file.

I also changed the cover text after feedback that it didnt look good the way it was.
I took out the background colour and gave a width of 100%, then centered the text. This doesn't quite look right onhte history page mobile size, however I can't see how to change this as when I change from align-text centre to align-text left, It doesnt do anything.
See below for updated images of each page with the new cover text.

![Cover Text Main Page Mobile Screen](assets/images/salutation2.png)

![Cover Text History Page Mobile Screen](assets/images/history2.png)

![Cover Text Join Us Page Mobile Screen](assets/images/joinus2.png)

![Cover Text Main Page Laptop Screen](assets/images/salutation2-laptop.png)

![Cover Text History Page Laptop Screen](assets/images/history2-laptop.png)

![Cover Text Join Us Page Laptop Screen](assets/images/joinus2-laptop.png)

![Cover Text Main Page PC Screen](assets/images/salutation2-pc.png)

![Cover Text History Page PC Screen](assets/images/history2-pc.png)

![Cover Text Join Us Page PC Screen](assets/images/joinus2-pc.png)
